README.md, before:

# README

Parks Lookup: Create an API for state and national parks. The API will list state and national parks.

# _National Park Application_

#### _Project for Week 12 at the coding school, Epicodus, written on August 23, 2019._

#### By _**Tae Lee**_

# Description
_A website for (fictional) world travel information created using Ruby on Rails.
In particular, this website informed about the countries in the world from traveler. Each traveler gives rating by their experience and written comments. You can visit the random country site within this website. In order to use this website, you need two git repos (world_travel_backend and world_travel_interface). The backend logic was tested with the integration test spec for API call._

# Database
_The site should have functionality to review countries but your database should have built-in list of countries (check deployment instructions). All reviews should have an author, comments and rating. (A rating can be a number between 1 and 10.) You can include other fields of your choosing as well._

# Scopes
_This site should use scopes to display the following information on the site:_
_The country with the most reviews._
_The country with highest averaged ratings from travelers._
_A suggestion of country to visit by random selection_

# Seeding
_This project should include seed data for 195 countries with 5 to 25 250 reviews. Use Faker with a loop to seed the database._

* Deployment instructions
_For API service back-end, execute rails server with port number 3001 in same machine with interface._
_rails s -p 3001_
_For interface, execute rails server with port number 3000 in same machine with interface._
_rails s_

## Setup/Installation Requirements
* _Open terminal and type 'git clone https://github.com/quantum93/world_travel_interface.git'_
* _Open terminal and type 'git clone https://github.com/quantum93/world_travel_backend.git'_
* _Navigate to each project directory using cd in terminal_
* _Open project in text editor (atom .)_
* _Type 'bundle install' in terminal to load Gems
* _rake db:create_
* _rake db:migrate_
* _For API service back-end, execute rails server with port number 3001 in same machine with interface._
* _rails s -p 3001_
* _For interface, execute rails server with port number 3000 in same machine with interface._
* _rails s_
* _rake db:seed_
* _rails server -p 3001 (For API server back-end,)_
* _rails server 3000 (For userinterface side,)_
* _open http://localhost:3000 in a web browser_
* _To run tests, type 'rspec' in terminal_
* _postgres DB installation with sql script in project (if your Postgres DB is not starting at login, please execute "pg_ctl -D /usr/local/var/postgres -l /usr/local/var/postgres/server.log start" on terminal._
* _for database backup, please execute followings in terminal,_
* _pg_dump [YOUR DATABASE NAME] > database_backup.sql_
* _for database restore after clone, please execute followings in terminal_
* _createdb [DATABASE NAME]_
* _psql [DATABASE_NAME] < database_backup.sql_
* _createdb -T [DATABASE NAME] [TEST DATABASE NAME]_

## Support and contact details

_Please contact us if you have any issues at: taebumlee@gmail.com_

## Technologies Used
* Ruby 2.6.3
* ActiveRecord
* Bootstrap
* Rspec
* Faker
* FactoryBot
* Atom
* GitHub
* Postgres DB 11.1
* for faker practice, use the faker information on https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/faker/1.6.6#fakervehicle site for test.

## Spec
| -------------------------------------------------------------: | -----------------------: | ---------------------------: |
| Create API Files and directories                               | rails new app_name --api -d postgresql -T               |
| Bundling gems for this app                                     | bundle install                                          |
| Setting up Rspec                                               | bundle exec rails generate rspec:install                |
| Add database                                                   | rake db:create                                          |
| Add State table in DB                                          | rails g migration add_states_table                      |
|                                                                | rake db:migrate                                         |
| Mirror the changes in our test database.                       | rake db:test:prepare                                    |
| Add Park table in DB                                           | rails g migration add_parks_table                       |
|                                                                | rake db:migrate                                         |
| Add foreign Key in parks table                                 | rails g migration add_foreign_key_for_parks             |
| database seed with custom seeding                              | rake db:seed                                            |
| Backup of database                                             | pg_dump National_Park_development > database_backup.sql |





Endpoints for GET (all and by id), POST, PUT and DELETE.
A RANDOM endpoint that randomly returns a park/business/animal.
A second custom endpoint that accepts parameters (example: a SEARCH route that allows users to search by specific park names).
Model scopes to process parameters from API calls.
At least one of the objectives from Monday's Further Exploration lesson (such as versioning).
Thorough exception handling.
Complete testing with request specs.
Randomized data with Faker or your own custom seed code.
A README that thoroughly documents all endpoints, including parameters that can be passed in.
## License
_This software is licensed under MIT license._

Copyright (c) 2019 **_Tae Lee and Alex Siegberg**

* Ruby version

* System dependencies

* Configuration
rails new app_name --api -d postgresql -T
* Database creation

* Database initialization

* How to run the test suite

* Services (job queues, cache servers, search engines, etc.)

* Deployment instructions

* ...

Commit message:

It works with scope feature.

README.md, after:

# README

Parks Lookup: Create an API for state and national parks. The API will list state and national parks.

# _National Park Application_

#### _Project for Week 12 at the coding school, Epicodus, written on August 23, 2019._

#### By _**Tae Lee**_

# Description
_A website for (fictional) world travel information created using Ruby on Rails.
In particular, this website informed about the countries in the world from traveler. Each traveler gives rating by their experience and written comments. You can visit the random country site within this website. In order to use this website, you need two git repos (world_travel_backend and world_travel_interface). The backend logic was tested with the integration test spec for API call._

# Database
_The site should have functionality to review countries but your database should have built-in list of countries (check deployment instructions). All reviews should have an author, comments and rating. (A rating can be a number between 1 and 10.) You can include other fields of your choosing as well._

# Scopes
_This site should use scopes to display the following information on the site:_
_The country with the most reviews._
_The country with highest averaged ratings from travelers._
_A suggestion of country to visit by random selection_

# Seeding
_This project should include seed data for 195 countries with 5 to 25 250 reviews. Use Faker with a loop to seed the database._

* Deployment instructions
_For API service back-end, execute rails server with port number 3001 in same machine with interface._
_rails s -p 3001_
_For interface, execute rails server with port number 3000 in same machine with interface._
_rails s_

## Setup/Installation Requirements
* _Open terminal and type 'git clone https://github.com/quantum93/world_travel_interface.git'_
* _Open terminal and type 'git clone https://github.com/quantum93/world_travel_backend.git'_
* _Navigate to each project directory using cd in terminal_
* _Open project in text editor (atom .)_
* _Type 'bundle install' in terminal to load Gems
* _rake db:create_
* _rake db:migrate_
* _For API service back-end, execute rails server with port number 3001 in same machine with interface._
* _rails s -p 3001_
* _For interface, execute rails server with port number 3000 in same machine with interface._
* _rails s_
* _rake db:seed_
* _rails server -p 3001 (For API server back-end,)_
* _rails server 3000 (For userinterface side,)_
* _open http://localhost:3000 in a web browser_
* _To run tests, type 'rspec' in terminal_
* _postgres DB installation with sql script in project (if your Postgres DB is not starting at login, please execute "pg_ctl -D /usr/local/var/postgres -l /usr/local/var/postgres/server.log start" on terminal._
* _for database backup, please execute followings in terminal,_
* _pg_dump [YOUR DATABASE NAME] > database_backup.sql_
* _for database restore after clone, please execute followings in terminal_
* _createdb [DATABASE NAME]_
* _psql [DATABASE_NAME] < database_backup.sql_
* _createdb -T [DATABASE NAME] [TEST DATABASE NAME]_

## Support and contact details

_Please contact us if you have any issues at: taebumlee@gmail.com_

## Technologies Used
* Ruby 2.6.3
* ActiveRecord
* Bootstrap
* Rspec
* Faker
* FactoryBot
* Atom
* GitHub
* Postgres DB 11.1
* for faker practice, use the faker information on https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/faker/1.6.6#fakervehicle site for test.

## Spec
| -------------------------------------------------------------: | -----------------------: | ---------------------------: |
| Create API Files and directories                               | rails new app_name --api -d postgresql -T               |
| Bundling gems for this app                                     | bundle install                                          |
| Setting up Rspec                                               | bundle exec rails generate rspec:install                |
| Add database                                                   | rake db:create                                          |
| Add State table in DB                                          | rails g migration add_states_table                      |
|                                                                | rake db:migrate                                         |
| Mirror the changes in our test database.                       | rake db:test:prepare                                    |
| Add Park table in DB                                           | rails g migration add_parks_table                       |
|                                                                | rake db:migrate                                         |
| Add foreign Key in parks table                                 | rails g migration add_foreign_key_for_parks             |
| database seed with custom seeding                              | rake db:seed                                            |
| Backup of database                                             | pg_dump National_Park_development > database_backup.sql |
| Creating endpoints for tables in DB (check with POSTMAN)       | rake routes                                             |
| Scopes for the highest and the least number of park in states  |                                                         |


Endpoints for GET (all and by id), POST, PUT and DELETE.
A RANDOM endpoint that randomly returns a park/business/animal.
A second custom endpoint that accepts parameters (example: a SEARCH route that allows users to search by specific park names).
Model scopes to process parameters from API calls.
At least one of the objectives from Monday's Further Exploration lesson (such as versioning).
Thorough exception handling.
Complete testing with request specs.
Randomized data with Faker or your own custom seed code.
A README that thoroughly documents all endpoints, including parameters that can be passed in.
## License
_This software is licensed under MIT license._

Copyright (c) 2019 **_Tae Lee and Alex Siegberg**

* Ruby version

* System dependencies

* Configuration
rails new app_name --api -d postgresql -T
* Database creation

* Database initialization

* How to run the test suite

* Services (job queues, cache servers, search engines, etc.)

* Deployment instructions

* ...
